esp_encrypted_img/examples/pre_encrypted_ota/README.md, before:

| Supported Targets | ESP32 | ESP32-C2 | ESP32-C3 | ESP32-C5 | ESP32-C6 | ESP32-C61 | ESP32-P4 | ESP32-S2 | ESP32-S3 |
| ----------------- | ----- | -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- | --------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

# Encrypted Binary OTA

This example demonstrates OTA updates with pre-encrypted binary using `esp_encrypted_img` component's APIs and tool.

Pre-encrypted firmware binary must be hosted on OTA update server.
This firmware will be fetched and then decrypted on device before being flashed.
This allows firmware to remain `confidential` on the OTA update channel irrespective of underlying transport (e.g., non-TLS).

* **NOTE:** Pre-encrypted OTA is a completely different scheme from Flash Encryption. Pre-encrypted OTA helps in ensuring the confidentiality of the firmware on the network channel, whereas Flash Encryption is intended for encrypting the contents of the ESP32's off-chip flash memory.

> [!CAUTION]
> Using the Pre-encrypted Binary OTA provides confidentiality of the firmware, but it does not ensure authenticity of the firmware. For ensuring that the firmware is coming from trusted source, please consider enabling secure boot feature along with the Pre-encrypted binary OTA. Please refer to security guide in the ESP-IDF docs for more details.

## ESP Encrypted Image Abstraction Layer

This example uses `esp_encrypted_img` component hosted at [idf-extra-components/esp_encrypted_img](https://github.com/espressif/idf-extra-components/blob/master/esp_encrypted_img) and available though the [IDF component manager](https://components.espressif.com/component/espressif/esp_encrypted_img).

Please refer to its documentation [here](https://github.com/espressif/idf-extra-components/blob/master/esp_encrypted_img/README.md) for more details.


## How to use the example

To create self-signed certificate and key, refer to README.md in upper level 'examples' directory. This certificate should be flashed with binary as it will be used for connection with server.

### Creating RSA key for encryption

You can generate a public and private RSA key pair using following commands:

`openssl genrsa -out rsa_key/private.pem 3072`

This generates a 3072-bit RSA key pair, and writes them to a file.

Private key is required for decryption process and is used as input to the `esp_encrypted_img` component. Private key can either be embedded into the firmware or stored in NVS.

Encrypted image generation tool will derive public key (from private key) and use it for encryption purpose.

* **NOTE:** We highly recommend the use of flash encryption or NVS encryption to protect the RSA Private Key on the device.
* **NOTE:** RSA key provided in the example is for demonstration purpose only. We recommend to create a new key for production applications.

### How to take firware URL from STDIN

You can take the firmware URL (or other data, just include the data with URL using " " deliminator) by enabling both CONFIG_EXAMPLE_FIRMWARE_UPGRADE_URL_FROM_STDIN and CONFIG_EXAMPLE_ENABLE_CI_TEST configs.

## Build and Flash example

```
idf.py build flash
```

* An encrypted image is automatically generated by build system. Upload the generated encrypted image (`build/pre_encrypted_ota_secure.bin`) to a server for performing OTA update.


## Configuration

Refer the README.md in the parent directory for the setup details.

Commit message:

feat(pre_encrypted_ota): Added HTTPS server in pytest
1. Added the python based HTTPS server in pytest to start the https
server locally.
2. Updated the README.md file
3. Fixed some cosmetic changes in test_local_server_ota.c

esp_encrypted_img/examples/pre_encrypted_ota/README.md, after:

| Supported Targets | ESP32 | ESP32-C2 | ESP32-C3 | ESP32-C5 | ESP32-C6 | ESP32-C61 | ESP32-P4 | ESP32-S2 | ESP32-S3 |
| ----------------- | ----- | -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- | --------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

# Encrypted Binary OTA

This example demonstrates OTA updates with pre-encrypted binary using `esp_encrypted_img` component's APIs and tool.

Pre-encrypted firmware binary must be hosted on OTA update server.
This firmware will be fetched and then decrypted on device before being flashed.
This allows firmware to remain `confidential` on the OTA update channel irrespective of underlying transport (e.g., non-TLS).

* **NOTE:** Pre-encrypted OTA is a completely different scheme from Flash Encryption. Pre-encrypted OTA helps in ensuring the confidentiality of the firmware on the network channel, whereas Flash Encryption is intended for encrypting the contents of the ESP32's off-chip flash memory.

> [!CAUTION]
> Using the Pre-encrypted Binary OTA provides confidentiality of the firmware, but it does not ensure authenticity of the firmware. For ensuring that the firmware is coming from trusted source, please consider enabling secure boot feature along with the Pre-encrypted binary OTA. Please refer to security guide in the ESP-IDF docs for more details.

## ESP Encrypted Image Abstraction Layer

This example uses `esp_encrypted_img` component hosted at [idf-extra-components/esp_encrypted_img](https://github.com/espressif/idf-extra-components/blob/master/esp_encrypted_img) and available though the [IDF component manager](https://components.espressif.com/component/espressif/esp_encrypted_img).

Please refer to its documentation [here](https://github.com/espressif/idf-extra-components/blob/master/esp_encrypted_img/README.md) for more details.


## How to use the example

To create self-signed certificate and key, refer to README.md in upper level 'examples' directory. This certificate should be flashed with binary as it will be used for connection with server.

### Creating RSA key for encryption

You can generate a public and private RSA key pair using following commands:

`openssl genrsa -out rsa_key/private.pem 3072`

This generates a 3072-bit RSA key pair, and writes them to a file.

Private key is required for decryption process and is used as input to the `esp_encrypted_img` component. Private key can either be embedded into the firmware or stored in NVS.

Encrypted image generation tool will derive public key (from private key) and use it for encryption purpose.

* **NOTE:** We highly recommend the use of flash encryption or NVS encryption to protect the RSA Private Key on the device.
* **NOTE:** RSA key provided in the example is for demonstration purpose only. We recommend to create a new key for production applications.

### How to take firware URL from STDIN

You can take the firmware URL (or other data, just include the data with URL using " " deliminator) by enabling both CONFIG_EXAMPLE_FIRMWARE_UPGRADE_URL_FROM_STDIN and CONFIG_EXAMPLE_ENABLE_CI_TEST configs.

## Build and Flash example

```
idf.py build flash
```

* An encrypted image is automatically generated by build system. Upload the generated encrypted image (`build/pre_encrypted_ota_secure.bin`) to a server for performing OTA update.

### Configure and start python based HTTPS Server

After a successful build, we need to create a self-signed certificate and run a simple HTTPS server as follows:

![create_self_signed_certificate](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/espressif/idf-extra-components/master/esp_encrypted_img/examples/pre_encrypted_ota/docs/ota_self_signature.gif)

* Create server_certs directory, Navigate to server_certs directory `cd server_certs`.
* To create a new self-signed certificate and key, run the command `openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout ca_key.pem -out ca_cert.pem -days 365 -nodes`.
  * When prompted for the `Common Name (CN)`, enter the name of the server that the "ESP-Dev-Board" will connect to. When running this example from a development machine, this is probably the IP address. The HTTPS client will check that the `CN` matches the address given in the HTTPS URL.

You can start the server using following instructions:

After the successful build, start the local python based HTTPS server using the certificate and key present in the 'server_certs' directory (certificate: ca_cert.pem and key: ca_key.pem).

To start the server use the following command -
```
python pytest_pre_encrypted_ota.py build 8070 server_certs
```

1. build - build directory (where the new firmware image is present) will be exposed
2. 8070 - server port (user can use any port)
3. server_certs - cert directory where the certificate and key is present (here same ca_cert.pem is used in main/pre_encrypted_ota.c and server_certs dir). If user wants to use own certificate and key just pass the directory name, in which the certificate and key is present.

* Note - If you don't want to create certificates then just run the `pytest_pre_encrypted_ota.py` without passing `server_certs` directory, the server will use the hardcoded certificates present in `pytest_pre_encrypted_ota.py`

## Configuration

Refer the README.md in the parent directory for the setup details.
