usb/usb_host_msc/README.md, before:

# USB Host MSC (Mass Storage Class) Driver

[![Component Registry](https://components.espressif.com/components/espressif/usb_host_msc/badge.svg)](https://components.espressif.com/components/espressif/usb_host_msc)

This directory contains an implementation of a USB Mass Storage Class Driver implemented on top of the [USB Host Library](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/esp32s2/api-reference/peripherals/usb_host.html).

MSC driver allows access to USB flash drivers using the BOT “Bulk-Only Transport” protocol and the Transparent SCSI command set.

## Usage

- First, usb host library has to be initialized by calling `usb_host_install`
- USB Host Library events have to be handled by invoking `usb_host_lib_handle_events` periodically.
  In general, an application should spawn a dedicated task handle USB Host Library events.
  However, in order to save RAM, an already existing task can also be used to call `usb_host_lib_handle_events`.
- Mass Storage Class driver is installed by calling `usb_msc_install` function along side with configuration.
- Supplied configuration contains user provided callback function invoked whenever MSC device is connected/disconnected
  and optional parameters for creating background task handling MSC related events. 
  Alternatively, user can call `usb_msc_handle_events` function from already existing task.
- After receiving `MSC_DEVICE_CONNECTED` event, user has to install device with `usb_msc_install_device` function,
  obtaining MSC device handle.
- USB descriptors can be printed out with `usb_msc_print_descriptors` and general information about MSC device retrieved
  with `from usb_msc_get_device_info` function.
- Obtained device handle is then used in helper function `usb_msc_vfs_register` mounting USB Disk to Virtual filesystem.
- At this point, standard C functions for accessing storage (`fopen`, `fwrite`, `fread`, `mkdir` etc.) can be carried out.
- In order to uninstall the whole USB stack, deinitializing counterparts to functions above has to be called in reverse order. 

## Known issues

- Driver only supports USB 2.0 flash drives using the BOT “Bulk-Only Transport” protocol and the Transparent SCSI command set

## Examples

- For an example, refer to [msc_host_example](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/tree/master/examples/peripherals/usb/host/msc)

Commit message:

fix(usb/msc): Fix regression from version 1.1.0 that files could not be opened in PSRAM
Closes https://github.com/espressif/idf-extra-components/issues/202

usb/usb_host_msc/README.md, after:

# USB Host MSC (Mass Storage Class) Driver

[![Component Registry](https://components.espressif.com/components/espressif/usb_host_msc/badge.svg)](https://components.espressif.com/components/espressif/usb_host_msc)

This directory contains an implementation of a USB Mass Storage Class Driver implemented on top of the [USB Host Library](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/esp32s2/api-reference/peripherals/usb_host.html).

MSC driver allows access to USB flash drivers using the BOT (Bulk-Only Transport) protocol and the Transparent SCSI command set.

## Usage

- First, usb host library has to be initialized by calling `usb_host_install`
- USB Host Library events have to be handled by invoking `usb_host_lib_handle_events` periodically.
  In general, an application should spawn a dedicated task handle USB Host Library events.
  However, in order to save RAM, an already existing task can also be used to call `usb_host_lib_handle_events`.
- Mass Storage Class driver is installed by calling `usb_msc_install` function along side with configuration.
- Supplied configuration contains user provided callback function invoked whenever MSC device is connected/disconnected
  and optional parameters for creating background task handling MSC related events. 
  Alternatively, user can call `usb_msc_handle_events` function from already existing task.
- After receiving `MSC_DEVICE_CONNECTED` event, user has to install device with `usb_msc_install_device` function,
  obtaining MSC device handle.
- USB descriptors can be printed out with `usb_msc_print_descriptors` and general information about MSC device retrieved
  with `from usb_msc_get_device_info` function.
- Obtained device handle is then used in helper function `usb_msc_vfs_register` mounting USB Disk to Virtual filesystem.
- At this point, standard C functions for accessing storage (`fopen`, `fwrite`, `fread`, `mkdir` etc.) can be carried out.
- In order to uninstall the whole USB stack, deinitializing counterparts to functions above has to be called in reverse order.

## Performance tuning

The following performance tuning options have significant impact on data throughput in USB HighSpeed implementations.
For original FullSpeed implementations, the effects are negligible.
- By default, Newlib (the implementation of C Standard Library) creates cache for each opened file
- The greater the cache, the better performance for the cost of RAM
- Size of the cache can be set with C STD library function `setvbuf()`
- Sizes over 16kB do not improve the performance any more

## Known issues

- Driver only supports flash drives using the BOT (Bulk-Only Transport) protocol and the Transparent SCSI command set

## Examples

- For an example, refer to [msc_host_example](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/tree/master/examples/peripherals/usb/host/msc) in ESP-IDF
