spi_nand_flash/README.md, before:

# SPI NAND Flash Driver

This driver is designed to support SPI NAND Flash with ESP chipsets.

This component incorporates the [dhara library](https://github.com/dlbeer/dhara), licenced under the [LICENCE](https://github.com/dlbeer/dhara/blob/master/LICENSE)

## About SPI NAND Flash
SPI NAND Flash combines the benefits of NAND Flash technology with the simplicity of the SPI interface, providing an efficient and cost-effective solution for non-volatile data storage in diverse applications. Its versatility, reliability, and affordability make it a popular choice for many embedded systems and electronic devices.

### Key Features:
* Non-Volatile Storage: SPI NAND Flash provides non-volatile storage, retaining data even when power is removed. This characteristic makes it ideal for storing critical system information and application data.

* SPI Interface: The SPI protocol allows for straightforward communication between the microcontroller and the NAND Flash. This simplicity in interface design facilitates easy integration into embedded systems.

* Cost-Effective: SPI NAND Flash offers a cost-effective storage solution, making it attractive for applications with budget constraints. Its competitive pricing makes it a viable option for a wide range of projects.

* High Density: NAND Flash technology inherently supports high-density storage, enabling the storage of large amounts of data in a compact form factor. This is advantageous for applications requiring extensive data storage in constrained spaces.

* Fast Read/Write Operations: The SPI interface enables reasonably fast read and write operations, making it suitable for applications where data access speed is crucial.

### Implementation Architecture

The component now features a layered architecture for better maintainability and modularity:

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Application/FS] --> B[SPI NAND Flash API]
    B --> C[NAND Wear-Leveling BDL]
    C --> D[NAND Flash BDL] 
    D --> E{Target}
    E -->|ESP Chips| F[SPI NAND Operations]
    F --> G[Hardware via SPI]
    E -->|Linux| H[NAND Emulation]
    H --> I[Memory-Mapped File]
    
    subgraph "Layered Architecture"
        B["spi_nand_flash.h<br/>(Backward Compatible)"]
        C["nand_wl_bdl<br/>(Wear Leveling)"]
        D["nand_flash_bdl<br/>(Physical Flash)"]
    end
    
    subgraph "Hardware Layer"
        F["spi_nand_oper<br/>(SPI Commands)"]
        H["nand_linux_mmap_emul<br/>(Host Test)"]
    end
```

**Key Benefits:**
- **Backward Compatible**: Existing code works unchanged
- **Modular Design**: Clear separation between wear-leveling and flash management
- **Enhanced Features**: Direct access to flash and wear-leveling layers

**📖 Architecture Documentation:**
For detailed information about the layered architecture, implementation details, API usage, and migration guide, see:
- [Layered Architecture Guide](layered_architecture.md) - Complete architecture documentation

## Supported SPI NAND Flash chips

At present, `spi_nand_flash` component is compatible with the chips produced by the following manufacturers and and their respective model numbers:

* Winbond - W25N01GVxxxG/T/R, W25N512GVxIG/IT, W25N512GWxxR/T, W25N01JWxxxG/T, W25N02KVxxIR/U, W25N04KVxxIR/U
* Gigadevice -  GD5F1GQ5UExxG, GD5F1GQ5RExxG, GD5F2GQ5UExxG, GD5F2GQ5RExxG, GD5F2GM7xExxG, GD5F4GQ6UExxG, GD5F4GQ6RExxG, GD5F4GM8xExxG
* Alliance - AS5F31G04SND-08LIN, AS5F32G04SND-08LIN, AS5F12G04SND-10LIN, AS5F34G04SND-08LIN, AS5F14G04SND-10LIN, AS5F38G04SND-08LIN, AS5F18G04SND-10LIN
* Micron - MT29F4G01ABAFDWB, MT29F1G01ABAFDSF-AAT:F, MT29F2G01ABAGDWB-IT:G
* Zetta - ZD35Q1GC
* XTX - XT26G08D

## FATFS Integration

For FATFS filesystem support, use the separate [`spi_nand_flash_vfs`](../spi_nand_flash_vfs) component:
- Provides diskio adapters and VFS mount helpers
- Supports both legacy API and BDL API
- See [`spi_nand_flash_vfs/README.md`](../spi_nand_flash_vfs/README.md) for usage examples

## Troubleshooting

To verify SPI NAND Flash writes, enable the `NAND_FLASH_VERIFY_WRITE` option in menuconfig. When this option is enabled, every time data is written to the SPI NAND Flash, it will be read back and verified. This helps in identifying hardware issues with the SPI NAND Flash.

To configure the project for this setting, follow these steps:

```
idf.py menuconfig
-> Component config
-> SPI NAND Flash configuration
-> NAND_FLASH_VERIFY_WRITE
```

Run `idf.py -p PORT flash monitor` and if the write verification fails, an error log will be printed to the console.

Commit message:

fix(spi_nand_flash): Fix review comments

spi_nand_flash/README.md, after:

# SPI NAND Flash Driver

This driver is designed to support SPI NAND Flash with ESP chipsets.

This component incorporates the [dhara library](https://github.com/dlbeer/dhara), licenced under the [LICENCE](https://github.com/dlbeer/dhara/blob/master/LICENSE)

## About SPI NAND Flash
SPI NAND Flash combines the benefits of NAND Flash technology with the simplicity of the SPI interface, providing an efficient and cost-effective solution for non-volatile data storage in diverse applications. Its versatility, reliability, and affordability make it a popular choice for many embedded systems and electronic devices.

### Key Features:
* Non-Volatile Storage: SPI NAND Flash provides non-volatile storage, retaining data even when power is removed. This characteristic makes it ideal for storing critical system information and application data.

* SPI Interface: The SPI protocol allows for straightforward communication between the microcontroller and the NAND Flash. This simplicity in interface design facilitates easy integration into embedded systems.

* Cost-Effective: SPI NAND Flash offers a cost-effective storage solution, making it attractive for applications with budget constraints. Its competitive pricing makes it a viable option for a wide range of projects.

* High Density: NAND Flash technology inherently supports high-density storage, enabling the storage of large amounts of data in a compact form factor. This is advantageous for applications requiring extensive data storage in constrained spaces.

* Fast Read/Write Operations: The SPI interface enables reasonably fast read and write operations, making it suitable for applications where data access speed is crucial.

### Implementation Architecture

The component now features a layered architecture for better maintainability and modularity:

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Application/FS] --> B[SPI NAND Flash API]
    B --> C[NAND Wear-Leveling BDL]
    C --> D[NAND Flash BDL] 
    D --> E{Target}
    E -->|ESP Chips| F[SPI NAND Operations]
    F --> G[Hardware via SPI]
    E -->|Linux| H[NAND Emulation]
    H --> I[Memory-Mapped File]
    
    subgraph "Layered Architecture"
        B["spi_nand_flash.h<br/>(Backward Compatible)"]
        C["nand_wl_bdl<br/>(Wear Leveling)"]
        D["nand_flash_bdl<br/>(Physical Flash)"]
    end
    
    subgraph "Hardware Layer"
        F["spi_nand_oper<br/>(SPI Commands)"]
        H["nand_linux_mmap_emul<br/>(Host Test)"]
    end
```

**Key Benefits:**
- **Backward Compatible**: Existing code works unchanged; sector-named APIs are retained as aliases of the page API
- **Page terminology**: Public API uses *page* (read_page, write_page, get_page_count, get_page_size) to align with NAND flash; sector names remain for compatibility
- **Modular Design**: Clear separation between wear-leveling and flash management
- **Enhanced Features**: Direct access to flash and wear-leveling layers

**📖 Architecture Documentation:**
For detailed information about the layered architecture, implementation details, API usage, and migration guide, see:
- [Layered Architecture Guide](layered_architecture.md) - Complete architecture documentation

## Supported SPI NAND Flash chips

At present, `spi_nand_flash` component is compatible with the chips produced by the following manufacturers and and their respective model numbers:

* Winbond - W25N01GVxxxG/T/R, W25N512GVxIG/IT, W25N512GWxxR/T, W25N01JWxxxG/T, W25N02KVxxIR/U, W25N04KVxxIR/U
* Gigadevice -  GD5F1GQ5UExxG, GD5F1GQ5RExxG, GD5F2GQ5UExxG, GD5F2GQ5RExxG, GD5F2GM7xExxG, GD5F4GQ6UExxG, GD5F4GQ6RExxG, GD5F4GM8xExxG
* Alliance - AS5F31G04SND-08LIN, AS5F32G04SND-08LIN, AS5F12G04SND-10LIN, AS5F34G04SND-08LIN, AS5F14G04SND-10LIN, AS5F38G04SND-08LIN, AS5F18G04SND-10LIN
* Micron - MT29F4G01ABAFDWB, MT29F1G01ABAFDSF-AAT:F, MT29F2G01ABAGDWB-IT:G
* Zetta - ZD35Q1GC
* XTX - XT26G08D

## FATFS Integration

For FATFS filesystem support, use the separate [`spi_nand_flash_vfs`](../spi_nand_flash_vfs) component:
- Provides diskio adapters and VFS mount helpers
- Supports both legacy API and BDL API
- See [`spi_nand_flash_vfs/README.md`](../spi_nand_flash_vfs/README.md) for usage examples

## Troubleshooting

To verify SPI NAND Flash writes, enable the `NAND_FLASH_VERIFY_WRITE` option in menuconfig. When this option is enabled, every time data is written to the SPI NAND Flash, it will be read back and verified. This helps in identifying hardware issues with the SPI NAND Flash.

To configure the project for this setting, follow these steps:

```
idf.py menuconfig
-> Component config
-> SPI NAND Flash configuration
-> NAND_FLASH_VERIFY_WRITE
```

Run `idf.py -p PORT flash monitor` and if the write verification fails, an error log will be printed to the console.
